docs: Drafted Software Distribution Hub (#5459)
devtron-labs/devtron: docs/user-guide/sdh/release-hub.md

3. Use the checkbox to add applications from your projects.

    ![Figure 9: Choosing Applications](https://devtron-public-asset.s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/images/sdh/search-apps.gif)

4. Click **Add Release Stage**.

    ![Figure 10: Dividing Release in Stages](https://devtron-public-asset.s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/images/sdh/add-release-stage.jpg)

{% hint style="info" %}
### Importance of Release Stages
By default, your selected applications will be set to release in one go. However, you can also release them in stages. In other words, you can decide which set of applications should be released first, subsequently which ones to release next, and the ones to release last. <br /><br /> For example, if you have a new login feature (backend) and a dashboard update (frontend), you might want to release the login feature first to ensure users can log in before seeing the updated dashboard. 
{% endhint %}

5. Use the drag-and-drop feature to move applications from one stage to another.

    ![Figure 11: Rearranging the Sequence](https://devtron-public-asset.s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/images/sdh/release-stage-v2.gif)

{% hint style="warning" %}

> The drag-and-drop feature is not meant for changing the sequence of applications within a stage. Use it solely for moving applications from one release stage to another.

Reviewer: This feels like, it's not meant to but it can? Should we say like it won't change in same stage but will across?

Author: No, @abhibhaw 
I rephrased it now, but the original intention was exactly that!
The drag-and-drop is not meant to but it can change the app sequence in same stage...So writing 'won't change in same stage' would be incorrect. I and @uxarya-d have discussed this earlier.

Author: This is rephrased line I am proposing "The drag-and-drop feature is designed specifically for moving applications between different release stages. It is not meant to alter the sequence of applications within the same stage."

    
3. Use the checkbox to select the applications belonging to the first release stage. You may use the filters on the left-hand side to make it easier.

    {% embed url="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HPYZ4-hhoDM" caption="First Release Stage" %}

4. Click **Deploy**.

    If the application workflow has pre-deployment/post-deployment stage, you get a dropdown where you can specifically trigger either pre-deployment, deployment, or post-deployment stage.

    ![Figure 19: Pre/Post Deployment](https://devtron-public-asset.s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/images/sdh/trigger-deployment.gif)

5. Once the applications from the first release stage are successfully deployed, select the applications from the subsequent release stage and deploy.

    {% embed url="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ioGZP1CCuxI" caption="Last Release Stage" %}

{% hint style="warning" %}
An application can be deployed on the tenant in the next release stage only if other applications in the previous stage are deployed successfully on the given tenant.
{% endhint %}

Here we covered the process of performing a production installation on one tenant. Similarly, you can per

---

## Extras

> ### Viewing Rollout Status

Reviewer: The rollout status has some grouping of statuses, when a tenant is in yet to trigger, when ongoing and failed. We need to cover that in doc

You can view the status of installations under `Rollout Status`. Moreover, you can go to **Rollout History** tab to view the deployment history.

![Figure 20: Checking Rollout Status](https://devtron-public-asset.s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/images/sdh/rollout-status-history.gif)

If the applications are partially released, the release status shows `Partially released`.

![Figure 21: Partial Release](https://devtron-public-asset.s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/images/sdh/partial-release.jpg)

If all the applications in a release are successfully deployed, the release status shows `Completely Released`.

![Figure 22: Full Release](https://devtron-public-asset.s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/images/sdh/complete-release.jpg)

You can view the status directly in the release track too.

![Figure 23: Alternative Way of Checking Status](https://devtron-public-asset.s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/images/sdh/complete-release-2.jpg)

### Putting a Release on Hold

> If a release is put on hold, none of the applications (in any release stage) can be deployed in that release. However, deploying from [Build & Deploy page](../deploying-application/README.md) of [Applications](../applications.md) or [Application Groups](../application-groups.md) will still be possible.

Reviewer: No need to refer apps and app grp...

Author: Removed

![Figure 7: Cloning an Existing Release](https://devtron-public-asset.s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/images/sdh/clone-release.jpg)

---

## Adding Applications

{% hint style="warning" %}
### Who Can Perform This Action?
Users need to have super-admin permission to add applications to a release track.
{% endhint %}

This involves the inclusion of applications you wish to rollout in the release version created by you.

1. Click **+ Add Application** button present within the release you created.

    ![Figure 8: Adding Apps to Release](https://devtron-public-asset.s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/images/sdh/add-apps.jpg)

2. Click the **Search and add applications** dropdown.

3. Use the checkbox to add applications from your projects.

    ![Figure 9: Choosing Applications](https://devtron-public-asset.s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/images/sdh/search-apps.gif)

4. Click **Add Release Stage**.

    ![Figure 10: Dividing Release in Stages](https://devtron-public-asset.s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/images/sdh/add-release-stage.jpg)

{% hint style="info" %}
### Importance of Release Stages

> By default, your selected applications will be set to release in one go. However, you can also release them in stages. In other words, you can decide which set of applications should be released first, subsequently which ones to release next, and the ones to release last. <br /><br /> For example, if you have a new login feature (backend) and a dashboard update (frontend), you might want to release the login feature first to ensure users can log in before seeing the updated dashboard. 

Reviewer: ```For example, if you have a new login feature (backend) and a dashboard update (frontend), you might want to release the login feature first to ensure users can log in before seeing the updated dashboard. ``` Some other example please, this seems off

Author: This time, used AI to generate a new example. Couldn't think of something better myself.
`For example, if you're adding a new payment system (backend) and an updated checkout page (frontend), you would release the payment system first to ensure payments can be processed correctly.`

{% hint style="warning" %}
The drag-and-drop feature is designed specifically for moving applications between different release stages. It is not meant to alter the sequence of applications within the same stage.
{% endhint %}

6. Once you have finalized the sequence and stages, click **Save Changes**.

---

## Selecting Images

{% hint style="warning" %}
### Who Can Perform This Action?
Users need to have super-admin permission to select images for selected applications.
{% endhint %}

1. Select a workflow available for your application. All the [images](../../reference/glossary.md#image) available in the selected workflow will appear.

    ![Figure 12: Selecting Image from Specific Workflow](https://devtron-public-asset.s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/images/sdh/workflow-selection.gif)

2. Click **SELECT** next to the image you wish to deploy from the list.

3. Repeat the above steps for other applications you added in the release.

    ![Figure 13: Repeating Steps for Other Applications](https://devtron-public-asset.s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/images/sdh/image-selections.gif)

4. Click **Save**.

> {% hint style="info" %}

Reviewer 2: We should mention that only the built images will appear in the dashboard. If there are no images present, the user will need to perform the CI stage and build the application first to obtain the image.

Author: Will include this in the next iteration of this doc

Author: Change in plans...committed in this iteration itself 👍

### Tip
In case you don’t have the correct images ready for any of your applications, you can partially save your changes at this point, and return once they are ready.
{% endhint %}

5. You may add release instructions for each application using the in-built Markdown editor. This can be detailed deployment notes and configuration guidelines for the team.

    ![Figure 14: Adding Release Instructions](https://devtron-public-asset.s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/images/sdh/release-instructions-v2.gif)

> 6. Before freezing the requirements, make sure the release order is correct, add applications if needed, and include environments in tenants (if not done already). Once you have finalized them, click **Lock Requirements**. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
6. Before locking the requirements, make sure the release order is correct, add applications if needed, and include environments in tenants (if not done already). Once you have finalized them, click **Lock Requirements**. 
```

Author: Will pick this up in the next iteration of this doc

Author: Fixed...committed in this iteration itself 👍

    ![Figure 18: Alternative Way of Marking](https://devtron-public-asset.s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/images/sdh/ready-for-release.jpg)
    
3. Use the checkbox to select the applications belonging to the first release stage. You may use the filters on the left-hand side to make it easier.

    {% embed url="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HPYZ4-hhoDM" caption="First Release Stage" %}

4. Click **Deploy**.

    If the application workflow has pre-deployment/post-deployment stage, you get a dropdown where you can specifically trigger either pre-deployment, deployment, or post-deployment stage.

    ![Figure 19: Pre/Post Deployment](https://devtron-public-asset.s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/images/sdh/trigger-deployment.gif)

5. Once the applications from the first release stage are successfully deployed, select the applications from the subsequent release stage and deploy.

    {% embed url="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ioGZP1CCuxI" caption="Last Release Stage" %}

{% hint style="warning" %}
An application can be deployed on the tenant in the next release stage only if other applications in the previous stage are deployed successfully on the given tenant.
{% endhint %}

> Here we covered the process of performing a production installation on one tenant. Similarly, you can per

Reviewer: Similarly, you can per... Have we missed something here?

Author: Fixed

---

## Extras

### Viewing Rollout Status

> You can view the status of installations under `Rollout Status`. Moreover, you can go to **Rollout History** tab to view the deployment history.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can view the status of your release at a particular tenant under `Rollout Status`. Moreover, you can go to **Rollout History** tab to view the deployment history.
```

![Figure 20: Checking Rollout Status](https://devtron-public-asset.s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/images/sdh/rollout-status-history.gif)

You can view the following statuses

| Rollout Status    | Description                                                 |
|-------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------|
| All Tenants       | Overview of rollout status across all tenants installations              |
| Yet to Trigger    | Shows tenant installations for which rollout has not yet started  |
| Ongoing           | Shows tenant installations for which deployment is currently in progress |
| Failed            | Shows tenant installations where rollout has encountered issues because some deployment stage failed |

> | Completed         | Shows tenant installations where deployment has successfully finished and services are live   |

Reviewer: This needs some more clarification, but let's plan that in v2 of this doc

Author: Sure
